sarah is a teenage girl looking forward
to move away from her abusive father but
gets locked up in the basement before
she managed to move out
welcome to total recaps
today we will explain a 2021 crime
thriller titled girl in the basement
take a seat and enjoy
our protagonist sarah and her father don
take marie to the hospital since she is
having respiratory problems
when they arrive at the hospital don
tells sarah that she must remain silent
paramedics attempt to save marie's life
by giving her oxygen but all they
receive is a flat cardiac line on the
monitor
following that we see the family seated
at a table
don and his wife irene have two children
amy and sarah whom they are raising
sarah is a rebellious young woman who
sneaks out to dance with her lover
around a campfire his name is
christopher and he is a musician who
plays the guitar and sings he performs a
song to sarah and tells her that he
loves her in the process
when sarah returns home the following
morning don is enraged and yells at his
daughter in front of the whole family
he claims that as long as she continues
to reside in his home she will abide by
his regulations
sarah makes arrangements with amy and
irene in order to live on her own for
the first time
don overhears the discussion and goes to
his bomb shelter in the basement to
prepare it for the worst
he intends to confine his daughter in
the house so that she would not be able
to leave him one day while his wife was
away don asks sarah to help him move
some things to the basement he leads her
to his secret bunker and closes the door
behind her the situation is serious she
is actually stuck in a bomb shelter with
no escape route we are provided with a
day counter this is only the first day
of many many more to come
sarah is living in a cage much like a
caged animal
the keypad can only be used three times
before the air circulation is turned off
don assures her that she will earn her
privileges and that she is being
punished as a result of her actions
then he exploits his own daughter as
punishment
irene is concerned that her daughter has
gone away and contacts the authorities
due to sarah's age of 18 don and irene
consult with the police who believe she
is a runaway and they are unable to do
anything since she is a minor sarah has
wounded and abused on day seven
she thinks about christopher to help her
get through the difficult time she is
going through right now
christopher in an ironic twist comes up
to interrogate don about sarah's
whereabouts don fabricates a story in
which she has run off with another guy
then he takes sarah downstairs compels
her to put on a red dress presents her
with a birthday cake and abuses her once
again
when he comes down the second time she
is prepared and attacks him with an
improvised weapon she has made he
violates her once again
it is day 354 and sarah is pregnant
ready to deliver a baby she is preparing
for the arrival of the baby with the
help of a nursing book neither medical
help nor appropriate medical hygiene are
provided during the delivery of the kid
seven years have passed sarah is raising
her two kids she got with her own father
they are all confined to the basement
with no access to anything other than
one another christopher is continuing on
the lookout for sarah and he tells amy
about the lies he heard from dawn
amy is willing to acknowledge that her
father has been violent toward her
mother and believes that don has done
something to her sister
then she approaches don accusing him of
having done something wrong
don is irritated by irene's desire to
consult with a private investigator
they get into an argument and don loses
his basement keys
when amy takes them up and starts
looking about the basement she is
quickly apprehended by an angry dawn
sarah gives birth to her third child and
persuades dawn to leave the baby on the
doorway with a letter from her
requesting that he take care of her
newborn child
don abandons the infant and expects
irene to locate it his attention is
drawn to a tiny letter sarah had written
in which she begged her mother to
contact the police since she was
imprisoned in the basement 14 years have
passed
marie and michael the youngsters are
becoming older they suffer from social
anxiety as a result of having lived
their whole lives in a subterranean
bunker they are completely oblivious to
how terrible their current circumstances
in reality
they become aware of a leak in the
ceiling and begin digging their way out
with a spoon to find safety
sarah is digging all night long and she
is also expecting another child
the hole goes to the front yard and she
shines a light to attract the attention
of a nearby neighbor when the neighbor
knocks on don's door and informs him of
the situation don rushes downstairs and
hits his pregnant daughter leading her
to become miscarried after 18 years in
prison don informed sarah about the
existence of her second son thomas who
lives just above them in order to turn
marie and michael against their mother
he employs thomas as a tool
they are clamoring to be let out and
sarah isn't having it she loses her cool
and falls on the floor sobbing wildly
she thinks about christopher her lover
and the affection he has shown her
throughout the years
sarah opens out about dawn to her
children and teaches them the truth
it's understandable that the youngsters
are feeling overwhelmed
later when don appeared again michael
attacked him but it was pointless
don only got even more angry
don's situation isn't much better on the
surface
a continuous source of conflict between
him and his wife he is dismissed from
his work and his home is in foreclosure
in order to relief himself of the
responsibility of caring for sarah and
the children he uses a hose to feed
carbon monoxide into the basement air
vents as they sleep
don gets caught in the garage by thomas
who is perplexed as to what his grandpa
is up to
don had a change of heart and decides to
save their lives marie suffers from
breathing difficulties and is
experiencing an asthma episode that need
medical care
don is begged by sarah to take them to
the hospital and she even addresses him
as dad
he takes them to the emergency room
right away
after 20 years in captivity we find
ourselves at the beginning of the film
as marie is being taken to the hospital
for medical treatment
sarah is very concerned about marie's
well-being and is thrilled when the
doctors are able to save her life
in response to the nurse's request for
additional information about marie's
medical history she is informed that she
is homeschooled and has only received
natural treatments
sarah carefully searches the hospital
looking for a way out but she seems
exhausted and puzzled in her effort to
flee
sarah spills water on the medical forms
to create a distraction and separates
from don
sarah arrives to a nurse seconds before
dawn arrives and confesses that she
needs assistance when a police officer
goes to speak to don don is taken into
custody maria is relieved when sarah
informs her that they are now safe
the home is swarming with police
officers all of whom assist in freeing
michael irene and thomas are devastated
when they see michael gasping for air as
they take him out of the basement
don has an overview of everything from
the rear of the police car
later the freshly gathered family is
having some fun outside they are
enjoying their freedom on a sunny
beautiful day marie then sees someone
approaching it is chris and he goes to
speak with sarah during their walk he
expresses regret for not having tried
more to locate her and for accepting her
father's false tale about her
disappearance
he presents her with a gift a pink
motorcycle helmet that he purchased for
her when she was 18 years old and they
were preparing to start on a trip they
take their long-awaited motorbike trip
together having finally found happiness
together
thank you for watching
if you want to see more make sure to
subscribe and turn on notifications
see you later